# First Community Developer Chat

## Location
- Google Hangout
  - https://hangouts.google.com/hangouts/_/2g3xkp4rkrelhjai5imlfh656ue
- Date: 2017-06-07
- Time: 18:00 UTC+02:00
- Attendance: 35

## Participants
- Adrian Brink
- Ethan Buchman
- Paul Homer

## Structure
- 10 minutes intro by Bucky
  - explains the roadmap until launch
  - explains our current status
  - gives an overview of what tendermint offers
  - explains why tendermint is awesome
- 45 minutes open Q&A and as a back-up until questions start appearing prepared questions to talk about
  - Should no one have any questions, we can just start talking about these topics in no particular order until someone has a question.
  - organisational topics:
    - Who is in the team?
    - What have we done over the last couple of months?
    - Are we expanding and what kind of people are we looking for?
    - Opening offices in Toronto and Berlin
  - competitive topics:
    - What makes tendermint different from Ethereum/Bitcoin?
    - What will Atoms be useful for?
    - What are our plans for Q4 with Atoms?
    - Are we competing against Ethereum/Bitcoin or will we form synergies?
  - project topics:
    - What is COSMOS?
    - What components are part of COSMOS?
    - How were atoms generated and secured during the ICO?
  - theoretical topics:
    - What is consensus and how does PoS and PoW differ?
  - technical topics:
    - What is Ethermint?
    - What are pegzones?
    - What is Basecoin?
    - How will Basecoin plugins work?
    - What are zones on the COSMOS hub?
    - What zones will we initially support?
    - What kind of applications are currently being build on top of tendermint?
      - enledger.io
- 5 minutes announcements
  - I am looking for solidity and go-ethereum developers to help build the ethereum peg zone
  - I am looking for rust developers to help build the bitcoin bridge and peg zone
  - Our first hackathons are coming up this and next month
  - We are organising a COSMOS conference for the end of the year (November)
- 5 minutes wrap-up
  - announce the next one on the 21/06/2017 at 18:00 (UTC+02:00)
  
## Improvements
- live stream over google instead to allow everyone to join
- make sure that we get a stable link beforehand

## Notes

Henrik Aasted Sørensen joined group chat.
Mateusz Grzelak joined group chat.
    
Adrian Brink    11:53 AM
We'll start at 18:00 :-)
Dirman Sebastian joined group chat.
Thomas Pulber joined group chat.
Martin Dyring-Andersen joined group chat.
Thomas Pulber left group chat.
    
Martin Dyring-Andersen  11:55 AM
Hello, world
Black Mass joined group chat.
    
Mateusz Grzelak 11:56 AM
DevHangout dh = new DevHangout();
dh.Start();
Michael Smolenski joined group chat.
Dirman Sebastian left group chat.
Dirman Sebastian joined group chat.
ADRIAN HERNANDEZ joined group chat.
Greg Szabo joined group chat.
Antoine Herzog joined group chat.
Markus joined group chat.
    
Black Mass  12:02 PM
hello
    
Martin Dyring-Andersen  12:02 PM
is it just me who cant hear anything?
    
Adrian Brink    12:02 PM
Can anyone hear me?
    
Henrik Aasted Sørensen  12:02 PM
Yes.
    
Tim Watts   12:02 PM
Yes
    
Mateusz Grzelak 12:02 PM
I can hear you
Adrian Brink muted Martin Dyring-Andersen.
    
Martin Dyring-Andersen  12:02 PM
fuark
rejoining..
Martin Dyring-Andersen left group chat.
Mateusz Grzelak left group chat.
Mateusz Grzelak joined group chat.
Martin Dyring-Andersen joined group chat.
    
Mateusz Grzelak 12:03 PM
I cant hear
Adrian Brink muted Martin Dyring-Andersen.
Chase Boyle joined group chat.
Gautier Dagannaud joined group chat.
    
Gautier Dagannaud   12:04 PM
Test
Doug Petkanics joined group chat.
    
Martin Dyring-Andersen  12:04 PM
yay!
    
Black Mass  12:04 PM
can we ask questions about COSMOS
?
Chris Housser joined group chat.
    
Black Mass  12:05 PM
thanks
Daniel Di Maria joined group chat.
    
Mateusz Grzelak 12:05 PM
no audio ?
Mateusz Grzelak left group chat.
Michael- Louis joined group chat.
dante creighton joined group chat.
Paul W. Homer joined group chat.
dante creighton left group chat.
Mateusz Grzelak joined group chat.
Richard Lin left group chat.
Yiseul Cho joined group chat.
To list all available commands enter "/?".
    
Martin Dyring-Andersen  12:15 PM
Where would be a good place to wise up on IBC?
    
Black Mass  12:15 PM
Can you compare COSMOS DEX with the WAVES DEX
    
Adrian Brink    12:15 PM
https://github.com/tendermint/basecoin/blob/master/docs/guide/ibc.md
    
Gabriel Tan 12:15 PM
what is the relevance of ethermint for cosmos development?
    
Chris Housser   12:15 PM
Can people play around with the testnet with no command line / coding knowledge?
Markus left group chat.
    
Gautier Dagannaud   12:16 PM
What would be the basic knowledge required to run a validator (and secure it)
Wolf Posdorfer joined group chat.
Wolf Posdorfer left group chat.
Gautier Dagannaud left group chat.
Wolf Posdorfer joined group chat.
Wolf Posdorfer joined group chat.
    
Michael Smolenski   12:17 PM
1. FastSync is slow, will this be improved?
2. Will pruning of the chain be implemented for blocks with no transactions?
    
Gabriel Tan 12:17 PM
thanks! quick follow-up re the ethermint question: who will validate the ethermint chain and would you have to create a new community from scratch to run ethermint?
Antoine Herzog left group chat.
Gautier Dagannaud joined group chat.
    
Tim Watts   12:18 PM
1 Would it possible to reimplement PoW on Tendermint?
    
Martin Dyring-Andersen  12:19 PM
Can you guys supply some details on how the Ethereum peg works? I imagine ethers are transferred to a "gateway" address that issues "iou" ethers on ethermint.. how are the real ethers secured?
makes sense. thanks.
    
Tim Watts   12:21 PM
2 Is it possible for validators to add themselves independently somehow?
    
Wolf Posdorfer  12:22 PM
@tim so basically a "Sybil attack" ?
    
Martin Dyring-Andersen  12:22 PM
time to talk later about the hackatom? otherwise i have a few questions
    
Tim Watts   12:22 PM
Yes that is why I asked about Pow first...
    
Chris Housser   12:22 PM
If 1 eth = 1 cosmos eth, if eth forks, will 1 cosmos eth now have both forked coins as well?
    
Martin Dyring-Andersen  12:25 PM
i think the withdrawal guarantee (to both chains) is the most important
so good
BTC peg?
nice
    
Tim Watts   12:29 PM
What other incentives could a project give the validators to have them support its own specific blockchain?
    
Zaki Manian 12:29 PM
Are going have pegs for erc20 tokens from the ethereum chain too?
    
Martin Dyring-Andersen  12:30 PM
DEX.. any thoughts on that?
    
Chris Housser   12:31 PM
conf. location?
    
Wolf Posdorfer  12:32 PM
Hamburg is better ;-)
    
Tim Watts   12:32 PM
+1 Berlin!
    
Zaki Manian 12:32 PM
What is the Dex?
    
Black Mass  12:32 PM
again a DEX question from me. İf you compare it with bitshares DEX whats the difference between cosmos dex
    
Martin Dyring-Andersen  12:32 PM
just trying to understand priorities wrgt DEX.. there are a lot of questions on slack about atom tradeability
    
Doug Petkanics  12:32 PM
Are you planning any failsafes for the governance protocol in the early days of the network (valid ranges for parameter change proposals for example), or will we reach 100% decentralized governance on day one of network launch?
    
Adrian Brink    12:33 PM
https://www.0xproject.com/pdfs/0x_white_paper.pdf
    
Black Mass  12:33 PM
and how will you handle the orderbook matcher in cosmos dex ?centralized or decentralized
    
Gautier Dagannaud   12:34 PM
I asked my question and then disconnected, couldn not here the answer. Do you have papers/books that provide the basic knowledge required to run a validator ?
(a secured one)
    
Henrik Aasted Sørensen  12:36 PM
Will validators be kicked out if they're unreachable for a period of time?
    
Martin Dyring-Andersen  12:36 PM
can you elaborate on centralized order book.. once a trade is done, the exchange will send a kind of "give up" (FX ternm) to cosmos hub to settle the trade?
    
Gautier Dagannaud   12:37 PM
Will there be a unique wallet to navigate the cosmos ecosystem ?
    
Black Mass  12:37 PM
what kind of revenue can we except when holding COSMOS
Chase Boyle left group chat.
    
Black Mass  12:38 PM
sorry atoms i meant
Gabriel Tan left group chat.
Gabriel Tan joined group chat.
    
Adrian Brink    12:38 PM
Can you still hear me?
    
Paul W. Homer   12:39 PM
no?
Adrian Brink left group chat.
    
Tim Watts   12:39 PM
no?
Adrian Brink joined group chat.
    
Martin Dyring-Andersen  12:39 PM
3rd party order books (exchanges), any partnerships there yet?
ok
sounds promising
Ledger? :-D
yeah nice!
    
Henrik Aasted Sørensen  12:40 PM
Sorry, what is that?
thanks :)
    
Adrian Brink    12:40 PM
https://www.ledgerwallet.com/products/12-ledger-nano-s
    
Mateusz Grzelak 12:40 PM
How will delegating work ?
    
Martin Dyring-Andersen  12:41 PM
HSM support for signing TXs as a validator?
    
Gautier Dagannaud   12:41 PM
Unbonding period ? Is it set ?
    
Mateusz Grzelak 12:41 PM
from user perspective
*holder perspective
    
Gabriel Tan 12:41 PM
Is the governance mechanism of Cosmos somewhat similar to Tezos? i.e. coinholders vote and code changes are pushed automatically on the protocol level
Antoine Herzog joined group chat.
    
Black Mass  12:41 PM
if we store our atoms on a hardware wallet do we still secure the network ? can we still delegate them
    
Gautier Dagannaud   12:43 PM
Unbonding period ?
    
Martin Dyring-Andersen  12:46 PM
any requirements under what license the hackatom code is released under?
Michael Smolenski left group chat.
    
Henrik Aasted Sørensen  12:46 PM
https://cosmos.network/hackatom
Mateusz Grzelak left group chat.
    
Martin Dyring-Andersen  12:46 PM
so not required to release under Apache 2.0?
Mateusz Grzelak joined group chat.
    
Martin Dyring-Andersen  12:46 PM
or should be
didn't hear
ok
crazy idea.. why not offer atoms as reward instead of ethers? since there is big interest to grab atoms, it might generate more interest than ethers
    
Mateusz Grzelak 12:47 PM
Can validators collude and rip off delegators, by taking majority of fees revenue for themselves ?
free market will solve that hopefully
    
Martin Dyring-Andersen  12:48 PM
so no atoms for this hackatom right?
    
Mateusz Grzelak 12:49 PM
There will not be hundreds of validator I think
that would slow down tx/s ?
Daniel Di Maria left group chat.
roman null joined group chat.
    
Gautier Dagannaud   12:50 PM
can you use ATOM to stake on zones ?
Doug Petkanics left group chat.
Primesite MM joined group chat.
    
Martin Dyring-Andersen  12:51 PM
atom balances.. where are they stored.. cosmos hub? or is there a different zone that stores them
Adrian Brink left group chat.
Primesite MM left group chat.
    
Gautier Dagannaud   12:51 PM
Wait, you can't use the native currency of a zone to stake in the initial model ?
Adrian Brink joined group chat.
    
Tim Watts   12:52 PM
ahhh
    
Gautier Dagannaud   12:52 PM
to stake in the zone, not the hub
    
Mateusz Grzelak 12:53 PM
can some 'wallet provider' use cosmos to allow for instant and secure transactions between accounts on his platform ?
    
Wolf Posdorfer  12:53 PM
any plans on exposing the p2p-communication in TM via the RPC (maybe)?
    
Henrik Aasted Sørensen  12:54 PM
Which P2P protocol is used by TM?
    
Mateusz Grzelak 12:54 PM
I heard polkadot talking with you. They expect comos to interconnect with them.
Charles S joined group chat.
    
Martin Dyring-Andersen  12:54 PM
there is a issue on that AFAIR, so add/remove peers (p2p API)
    
Gautier Dagannaud   12:54 PM
will you develop a specific wallet for the dex that includes say an ETH and BTC wallet so that you can trade these assets (and not their bridge-version) directly on one wallet ?
ETH and BTC node*
    
Mateusz Grzelak 12:56 PM
ledger should be a priority before software wallet I think
    
Martin Dyring-Andersen  12:57 PM
i was wondering about the apache 2.0 license restrictions in hackatom.. any specific reason for this? i guess any development (regardless of license) will benefit cosmos
    
Mateusz Grzelak 12:57 PM
How many people are working on cosmos and tendermint together ?
    
Tim Watts   12:57 PM
Did you mention the validators of zones are shared with the hubs (at first)?
    
Chris Housser   12:58 PM
Any non dev roles?
    
Mateusz Grzelak 12:58 PM
Is the further expansion of cosmos planned after all current goals are reached ?
    
Martin Dyring-Andersen  12:59 PM
for instance, software developed for a zone wouldn't require being apache 2.0.. since it just uses an interface with cosmos hub via IBC.. so i think the license requirements puts some unwanted restrictions on participation
    
Tim Watts   12:59 PM
how should the ABCI apps be distributed to the validators? I'm a bit confused on the deployment process
Black Mass left group chat.
    
Martin Dyring-Andersen  1:00 PM
makes sense
Antoine Herzog left group chat.
    
Tim Watts   1:01 PM
thank you all :D
    
Wolf Posdorfer  1:01 PM
or discord?
Charles S left group chat.
Zaki Manian left group chat.
    
Martin Dyring-Andersen  1:01 PM
thanks
    
Mateusz Grzelak 1:01 PM
Is it ok to post this to YT ?
    
Henrik Aasted Sørensen  1:01 PM
Thanks guys!
    
Gabriel Tan 1:01 PM
Thanks guys for doing the chat, really excited to see this little community grow:)
